In the last video, you saw
the building blocks of a single layer,
of a single convolution
layer in the ConvNet.
Now let's go through a concrete example
of a deep convolutional neural network.
And this will give you some practice with
the notation that we introduced toward
the end of the last video as well.
Let's say you have an image, and
you want to do image classification,
or image recognition.
Where you want to take as input an image,
x, and decide is this a cat or not, 0 or
1, so it's a classification problem.
Let's build an example of a ConvNet
you could use for this task.
For the sake of this example,
I'm going to use a fairly small image.
Let's say this image is 39 x 39 x 3.
This choice just makes some of
the numbers work out a bit better.
And so, nH in layer 0 will
be equal to nw height and
width are equal to 39 and
the number of channels and
layer 0 is equal to 3.
Let's say the first layer
uses a set of 3 by 3 filters
to detect features, so
f = 3 or really f1 = 3,
because we're using a 3 by 3 process.
And let's say we're using a stride of 1,
and no padding.
So using a same convolution, and
let's say you have 10 filters.
Then the activations in this next layer of
the neutral network will be 37 x 37 x 10,
and
this 10 comes from the fact
that you use 10 filters.
And 37 comes from this formula
n + 2p- f over s + 1.
Right, then I guess you have 39
+ 0- 3 over 1 + 1 that's = to 37.
So that's why the output is 37 by 37,
it's a valid convolution and
that's the output size.
So in our notation you would
have nh[1] = nw[1] = 37 and
nc[1] = 10, so nc[1] is also equal
to the number of filters
from the first layer.
And so this becomes the dimension of
the activation at the first layer.
Let's say you now have another
convolutional layer and
let's say this time you
use 5 by 5 filters.
So, in our notation f[2] at
the next neural network = 5,
and let's say use a stride of 2 this time.
And maybe you have no padding and
say, 20 filters.
So then the output of this
will be another volume,
this time it will be 17 x 17 x 20.
Notice that,
because you're now using a stride of 2,
the dimension has shrunk much faster.
37 x 37 has gone down in size by slightly
more than a factor of 2, to 17 x 17.
And because you're using 20 filters,
the number of channels now is 20.
So it's this activation a2
would be that dimension and so
nh[2] = nw[2] = 17 and
nc[2] = 20.
All right,
let's apply one last convolutional layer.
So let's say that you use
a 5 by 5 filter again,
and again, a stride of 2.
So if you do that, I'll skip the math,
but you end up with a 7 x 7, and
let's say you use 40 filters,
no padding, 40 filters.
You end up with 7 x 7 x 40.
So now what you've done is
taken your 39 x 39 x 3 input
image and computed your 7 x 7
x 40 features for this image.
And then finally, what's commonly
done is if you take this 7 x 7 x 40,
7 times 7 times 40 is actually 1,960.
And so what we can do is take
this volume and flatten it or
unroll it into just 1,960 units, right?
Just flatten it out into a vector, and
then feed this to a logistic
regression unit, or a softmax unit.
Depending on whether you're
trying to recognize or
trying to recognize any one
of key different objects and
then just have this give the final
predicted output for the neural network.
So just be clear, this last step is
just taking all of these numbers,
all 1,960 numbers, and
unrolling them into a very long vector.
So then you just have one long vector that
you can feed into softmax until it's just
a regression in order to make
prediction for the final output.
So this would be a pretty
typical example of a ConvNet.
A lot of the work in designing
convolutional neural net is selecting
hyperparameters like these,
deciding what's the total size?
What's the stride?
What's the padding and
how many filters are used?
And both later this week as well as next
week, we'll give some suggestions and
some guidelines on how
to make these choices.
But for now, maybe one thing to take
away from this is that as you go
deeper in a neural network, typically you
start off with larger images, 39 by 39.
And then the height and
width will stay the same for
a while and gradually trend down as
you go deeper in the neural network.
It's gone from 39 to 37 to 17 to 14.
Excuse me,
it's gone from 39 to 37 to 17 to 7.
Whereas the number of channels
will generally increase.
It's gone from 3 to 10 to 20 to 40,
and you see this general
trend in a lot of other convolutional
neural networks as well.
So we'll get more guidelines about how to
design these parameters in later videos.
But you've now seen your first example
of a convolutional neural network, or
a ConvNet for short.
So congratulations on that.
And it turns out that
in a typical ConvNet,
there are usually three types of layers.
One is the convolutional layer, and
often we'll denote that as a Conv layer.
And that's what we've been
using in the previous network.
It turns out that there are two other
common types of layers that you haven't
seen yet but we'll talk about
in the next couple of videos.
One is called a pooling layer,
often I'll call this pool.
And then the last is a fully
connected layer called FC.
And although it's possible to design
a pretty good neural network using just
convolutional layers, most neural network
architectures will also have a few pooling
layers and a few fully connected layers.
Fortunately pooling layers and
fully connected layers are a bit simpler
than convolutional layers to define.
So we'll do that quickly in the next
two videos and then you have a sense
of all of the most common types of layers
in a convolutional neural network.
And you will put together even more
powerful networks than the one we
just saw.
So congrats again on seeing your first
full convolutional neural network.
We'll also talk later in this week
about how to train these networks, but
first let's talk briefly about pooling and
fully connected layers.
And then training these,
we'll be using back propagation,
which you're already familiar with.
But in the next video, let's quickly go
over how to implement a pooling layer for
your ConvNet.